---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | Mapping | Multi Field Type
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["mapping", "Mapping"], 
    ["multi_field_type", "Multi Field Type"], 
];
</script>

h1. Multi Field Type

p. The @multi_field@ type allows to map several "core_types":../core_types of the same value. This can come very handy, for example, when wanting to map a @string@ type, once when its @analyzed@ and once when its @not_analyzed@. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "tweet" : {
        "properties" : {
            "name" : {
                "type" : "multi_field",
                "fields" : {
                    "name" : {"type" : "string", "index" : "analyzed"},
                    "name_untouched" : {"type" : "string", "index" : "not_analyzed"}
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. The above example shows how the @name@ field, which is of simple @string@ type, gets mapped twice, once with it being @analyzed@ under @name@, and once with it being @not_analyzed@ under @name_untouched@.

h2. Accessing Fields

p. With @multi_field@ mapping, the field that has the same name as the property is treated as if it was mapped without a multi field. Thats the "default" field. It can be accessed regularly, for example using @name@ or using typed navigation @tweet.name@. 

p. Other fields with different names can be easily accessed using the navigation notation, for example, using: @name.untouched@, or using the typed navigation notation @tweet.name.untouched@.

h2. Merging

p. When updating mapping definition using the @put_mapping@ API, a core type mapping can be "upgraded" to a @multi_field@ mapping. This means that if the old mapping has a plain core type mapping, the updated mapping for the same property can be a @multi_field@ type, with the default field being the one being replaced.
