---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | REST API | Delete
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["rest_api", "REST API"],
    ["delete", "Delete"]
];
</script>

h1. Delete

p. The delete API allows to delete a typed JSON document from a specific index based on its id. The following example deletes the JSON document from an index called twitter, under a type called tweet, with id valued 1:

<pre class="prettyprint">
$ curl -XDELETE 'http://localhost:9200/twitter/tweet/1'
</pre>

p. The result of the above delete operation is:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "ok" : true,
    "_index" : "twitter",
    "_type" : "tweet",
    "_id" : "1"
}
</pre>

p(note). The delete operation will always return the the above result, even if the document did not exists. This is done for performance reasons.

h2. Automatic for the Index

p. The delete operation automatically creates an index if it has not been created before (check out the "create index API":../admin/indices/create_index for manually creating an index), and also automatically creates a dynamic type mapping for the specific type if it has not been created before (check out the "put mapping":../admin/indices/put_mapping API for manually creating type mapping). 

h2. Distributed

The delete operation gets hashed into a specific shard id. It then gets redirected into the primary shard within that id group, and replicated (if needed) to shard replicas within that id group.

h2. Replication Type

p. The replication of the operation can be done in an asynchronous manner to the replicas (the operation will return once it has be executed on the primary shard). The @replication@ parameter can be set to @async@ (defaults to @sync@) in order to enable it.

