---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | Modules | Discovery
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["modules", "Modules"], 
    ["discovery", "Discovery"], 
];
</script>

h1. Discovery Module

p. The discovery module is responsible for discovering nodes within a cluster, as well as electing a master node.

p. Note, ElasticSearch is a peer to peer based system, nodes communicate with one another directly if operations are delegated / broadcast. All the main APIs (index, delete, search) do not communicate with the master node. The responsibility of the master node is to maintain the global cluster state, and act if nodes join or leave the cluster by reassigning shards. Each time a cluster state is changed, the state is made known to the other nodes in the cluster (the manner depends on the actual discovery implementation).

p. The discovery module is an abstraction on top of an actual implementation of discovery. The following are supported:

|_. Type |_. Description |
|"zen":zen|A built in discovery implementation. The default discovery.|
|"cloud":/docs/elasticsearch/cloud/discovery|Cloud based discovery.|
|"jgroups":jgroups|A discovery implementation using "JGroups":http://www.jgroups.org.|

h2. Settings

p. The @cluster.name@ allows to create separated clusters from one another. The default value for the cluster name is @elasticsearch@, though it is recommended to change this to reflect the logical group name of the cluster running. 

