---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | Modules | memcached
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["modules", "Modules"], 
    ["memcached", "memcached"], 
];
</script>

h1. memcached Module

p. The memcached module allows to expose ElasticSearch "REST API":/docs/elasticsearch/rest_api over the memcached protocol (as closely as possible). 

p. It is provided as a plugin called @transport-memcached@ and installing is as simply as executing @plugin -install transport-memcached@ or downloading the memcached plugin and placing it under the @plugins@ directory.

p. The memcached protocol supports both the binary and the text protocol, automatically detecting the correct one to use.

h2. Mapping REST to Memcached Protocol

p. Memcached commands are mapped to REST and handled by the same generic REST layer in elasticsearch. Here is a list of the memcached commands supported:

h3. GET

p. The memcached @GET@ command maps to a REST @GET@. The key used is the URI (with parameters). The main downside is the fact that the memcached @GET@ does not allow body in the request (and @SET@ does not allow to return a result...). For this reason, most REST APIs (like search) allow to accept the "source" as a URI parameter as well.

h3. SET

p. The memcached @SET@ command maps to a REST @POST@. The key used is the URI (with parameters), and the body maps to the REST body.

h3. DELETE

p. The memcached @DELETE@ command maps to a REST @DELETE@. The key used is the URI (with parameters).

h3. QUIT

p. The memcached @QUIT@ command is supported and disconnects the client.

h2. Settings

p. The following are the settings the can be configured for memcached:

|_. Setting |_. Description |
|@memcached.port@|A bind port range. Defaults to @11211-11311@.|

p. It also shares the uses the common "network settings":../node/network.

h2. Disable memcached

p. The memcached module can be completely disabled and not started using by setting @memcached.enabled@ to @false@. By default it is enabled once it is detected as a plugin.


