---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | REST API | Admin | Indices | Templates
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["rest_api", "REST API"],
    ["admin", "Admin"],
    ["indices", "Indices"],
    ["templates", "Templates"]
];
</script>

h1. Templates

p. Index templates allow to define templates that will automatically be applied to new indices created. The templates include both settings and mappings, and a simple pattern template that controls if the template will be applied to the index created. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/_template/template_1 -d '
{
    "template" : "te*",
    "settings" : {
        "number_of_shards" : 1
    },
    "mappings" : {
        "type1" : {
            "_source" : { "enabled" : false }
        }
    }
}
'
</pre>

p. Defines a template named template_1, with a template pattern of @te*@. The settings and mappings will be applied to any index name that matches the @te*@ template.

h2. Deleting a Template

p. Index templates are identified by a name (in the above case @template_1@) and can be delete as well:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XDELETE localhost:9200/_template/template_1
</pre>

h2. GETting a Template

p. Index templates are identified by a name (in the above case @template_1@) and can be delete as well:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET localhost:9200/_template/template_1
</pre>

h2. Multiple Template Matching

p. Multiple index templates can potentially match an index, in this case, both the settings and mappings are merged into the final configuration of the index. The order of the merging can be controlled using the @order@ parameter, with lower order being applied first, and higher orders overriding them. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/_template/template_1 -d '
{
    "template" : "*",
    "order" : 0
    "settings" : {
        "number_of_shards" : 1
    },
    "mappings" : {
        "type1" : {
            "_source" : { "enabled" : false }
        }
    }
}
'

curl -XPUT localhost:9200/_template/template_2 -d '
{
    "template" : "te*",
    "order" : 1
    "settings" : {
        "number_of_shards" : 1
    },
    "mappings" : {
        "type1" : {
            "_source" : { "enabled" : true }
        }
    }
}
'
</pre>

p. The above will disable storing the @_source@ on all @type1@ types, but for indices of that start with @te*@, source will still be enabled. Note, for mappings, the merging is "deep", meaning that specific object/property based mappings can easily be added/overridden on higher order templates, with lower order templates providing the basis.