---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | Mapping | Attachment Type
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["mapping", "Mapping"], 
    ["attachment", "Attachment Type"], 
];
</script>

h1. Attachment Type

p. The @attachment@ type allows to index different "attachment" type field (encoded as @base64@), for example, microsoft office formats, open document formats, ePub, HTML, and so on (full list can be found "here":http://lucene.apache.org/tika/0.7/formats.html).

p. The @attachment@ type is provided as a plugin extension. The plugin is a simple zip file that can be downloaded and placed under @$ES_HOME/plugins@ location. It will be automatically detected and the @attachment@ type will be added.

p. Using the attachment type is simple, in your mapping JSON, simply a certain JSON element as attachment, for example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "person" : {
        "properties" : {
            "my_attachment" : { "type" : "attachment" }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. In this case, the JSON to index can be:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "my_attachment" : "... base64 encoded attachment ..."
}
</pre>

p. The @attachment@ type not only indexes the content of the doc, but also automatically adds meta data on the attachment as well (when available). The metadata supported are: @date@, @title@, @author@, and @k@eywords. They can be queries using the "dot notation", for example: @my_attachment.author@.

p. Both the meta data and the actual content are simple core type mappers (string, date, ...), thus, they can be controlled in the mappings. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "person" : {
        "properties" : {
            "file" : { 
                "type" : "attachment",
                "fields" : {
                    "file" : {index : "no"},
                    "date" : {store : "yes"},
                    "author" : {analyzer: "myAnalyzer"}
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. In the above example, the actual content indexed is mapped under @fields@ name @file@, and we decide not to index it, so it will only be available in the @_all@ field. The other fields map to their respective metadata names, but there is no need to specify the @type@ (like @string@ or @date@) since it is already known.

p. The plugin uses "Apache Tika":http://lucene.apache.org/tika/ to parse attachments, so many formats are supported, listed "here":http://lucene.apache.org/tika/0.7/formats.html.
