---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | Java Terms API
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["java_api", "Java API"],
    ["terms", "Terms"]
];
</script>

h1. Terms

p. The terms API allows to get terms (from one or more indices) of one or more fields and their respective document frequencies (how often they exists in documents). This can be very handy to implement things like tag clouds or simple auto suggest.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
import static org.elasticsearch.client.Requests.*;

TermsResponse response = client.terms(termsRequest("test")
                .fields("name", "content")
                .sortType(FREQ))
                .actionGet()
</pre>

p. For more information on the terms operation, check out the REST "terms":/docs/elasticsearch/rest_api/terms docs.

h2. Operation Threading

p. The terms API allows to set the threading model the operation will be performed when the actual execution of the API is performed on the same node (the API is executed on a shard that is allocated on the same server).

p. There are three threading modes.The @NO_THREADS@ mode means that the terms operation will be executed on the calling thread. The @SINGLE_THREAD@ mode means that the terms operation will be executed on a single different thread for all local shards. The @THREAD_PER_SHARD@ mode means that the terms operation will be executed on a different thread for each local shard.

p. The default mode is @SINGLE_THREAD@.

