---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | REST API | Search | Facets
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["rest_api", "REST API"],
    ["search", "Search"],
    ["facets", "Facets"],
];
</script>

h1. Facets

p. Facets allow to provide aggregated data based on the search request. For example, a facet can return the most popular terms within the search query.

|_. Facet |_. Description |
|"query":query_facet|A facet returning a count matching the facet query.|
|"filter":filter_facet|A facet returning a count matching the facet filter.|
|"terms":terms_facet|A facet returning the N most frequent terms.|
|"histogram":histogram_facet|A histogram facet across numeric fields.|
|"statistical":statistical_facet|Compute statistical data for numeric fields or scripts.|
|"range":range_facet|A facet computing counts and totals for documents falling within specific range.|
|"geo_distance":geo_distance_facet|A facet computing counts and totals for documents falling within specific range distances.|

h2. score / global

p. All facets can be configured to run within a specific scope. The two common ones are @_main_@ and @_global_@. The @_main_@ scope causes the facet to be bounded to the current search query, while the @_global_@ scope executes the facet globally (not bounded by the search query, though, of course, can still be filtered).

p. A shorthand to set a facet to run globally is to set the @global@ parameter to @true@:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "facets" : {
        "wow_facet" : {
            "facet_type" : {
                ...
            },
            "global" : true
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

p. Custom scope names works in conjunction with child queries / filters, allowing to force the facets to run on the child documents matching the child specific query.

h2. filter

p. All facets can be configured with an additional filter (explained in the "Query DSL":../../query_dsl#Filters section), which will further reduce the documents they execute on. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "facets" : {
        "wow_facet" : {
            "facet_type" : {
                ...
            },
            "facet_filter" : {
                "term" : { "user" : "kimchy"}
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>
