---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | REST API
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["rest_api", "REST API"]
];
</script>

h1. REST API

p. This section describes the REST APIs ElasticSearch provides using JSON. The following are the main APIs one would need in order to get started with ElasticSearch:

|_. API |_. Description |
|"index":index|Index a typed JSON document into a specific index and make it searchable.|
|"delete":delete|Delete a typed JSON document from a specific index based on its id.|
|"get":get|Get a typed JSON document from an index based on its id.|
|"search":search|Execute a search query against one or more indices and get back search hits.|
|"count":count|Execute a query against one or more indices and get hits count.|
|"create_index":admin/indices/create_index|Creates an index with optional settings.|
|"delete_index":admin/indices/delete_index|Deletes an index.|
|"put_mapping":admin/indices/put_mapping|Register specific mapping definition for a specific type against one or more indices.|

p. There is also an evolving "Administration REST API":admin.

h2. Exported REST Layers

p. The REST API is exposed using "HTTP":/docs/elasticsearch/modules/http, "Memcached":/docs/elasticsearch/modules/memcached.

h2. Pretty Results

p. When appending @?pretty=true@ to any request made, the JSON returned will be pretty formatted (use it for debugging only!).

h2. Parameters

p. Rest parameters (when using HTTP, map to HTTP URL parameters) follow the convention of using underscore casing.

h2. Boolean Values

p. All REST APIs parameters (both request parameters and JSON body) support providing boolean "false" as the values: @false@, @0@ and @off@. All other values are considered "true". Note, this is not related to fields within a document indexed treated as boolean fields.

h2. Number Values

p. All REST APIs support providing numbered parameters as @string@ on top of supporting the native JSON number types.

h2. Result Casing

p. All REST APIs accept the @case@ parameter. When set to @camelCase@, all field names in the result will be returned in camel casing, otherwise, underscore casing will be used. Note, this does not apply to the source document indexed.

h2. JSONP

p. All REST APIs accept a @callback@ parameter resulting in a "JSONP":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON#JSONP result.
