---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | Configuration
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["setup", "Setup"], 
    ["configuration", "Configuration"]
];
</script>

h1. Configuration

p. ElasticSearch configuration files can be found under @ES_HOME/config@ folder. The folder comes with two files, the @elasticsearch.yml@ for configuring ElasticSearch different "modules":../../modules, and @logging.yml@ for configuring the ElasticSearch logging.

h2. Settings

p. The configuration format is "YAML":http://www.yaml.org/, here is an example of changing the address all network based modules will use to bind and publish to:

<pre class="prettyprint">
network :
    host : 10.0.0.4
</pre>

p. Internally, all settings are collapsed into "namespaced" settings. For example, the above gets collapsed into @network.host@. This means that its easy to support other configuration formats, for example, "JSON":http://www.json.org. If JSON is a preferred configuration format, simply rename the @elasticsearch.yml@ file to @elasticsearch.json@ and add:

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
    "network" : {
        "host" : "10.0.0.4"
    }
}
</pre>

p. It also means that its easy to provide the settings externally either using the @ES_JAVA_OPTS@ or as parameters to the @elasticsearch@ command, for example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
$ elasticsearch -f -Dnetwork.host=10.0.0.4
</pre>

p. Another option is to use the @${...}@ notation within the configuration file which will resolve to an environment setting, for example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
    "network" : {
        "host" : "${ES_NET_HOST}"
    }
}
</pre>


p. The location of the configuration file can be set externally using a system property:

<pre class="prettyprint">
$ elasticsearch -f -Des.config=/path/to/config/file
</pre>

h2. Index Settings

p. Indices created within the cluster can provide their own settings. For example, the following creates an index with memory based storage instead of the default file system based one (the format can be either YAML or JSON):

<pre class="prettyprint">
$ curl -XPUT http://localhost:9200/kimchy/ -d \
'
index :
    store:
        type: memory
'
</pre>

p. Index level settings can be set on the node level as well, for example, within the @elasticsearch.yml@ file, the following can be set:

<pre class="prettyprint">
index :
    store:
        type: memory
</pre>

p. This means that every index that gets created on the specific node started with the mentioned configuration will store the index in memory <b>unless the index explicitly set it</b>. In other words, any index level settings override what is set in the node configuration. Of course, the above can also be set as a "collapsed" setting, for example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
$ elasticsearch -f -Dindex.store.type=memory
</pre>

p. All of the index level configuration can be found within each "index module":../../modules/index.

h2. Logging

ElasticSearch uses "slf4j":http://www.slf4j.org/ as its logging abstraction and comes, out of the box, with "log4j":http://logging.apache.org/log4j/. It tries to simplify log4j configuration by using "YAML":http://www.yaml.org/ to configure it, and the logging configuration file is @config/logging.yml@ file.

