---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | Modules | Gateway
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["modules", "Modules"], 
    ["gateway", "Gateway"], 
];
</script>

h1. Gateway Module

p. The gateway module allows to store the state of the cluster meta data across full cluster restarts. The cluster meta data mainly holds all the indices created with their respective index level settings and explicit type mappings.

p. Each time the cluster meta data changes (for example, and index is added or deleted), it will get persisted using the gateway. When the cluster first starts up, the state will be read from the gateway and applied.

p. The type of the gateway to use can be set using the @gateway.type@ setting. The following gateway types supported:

|_. Type |_. Description |
|none|No state is stored.|
|"fs":fs|File system based storage.|
|"hadoop":hadoop|Hadoop HDFS based storage.|
|"cloud":/docs/elasticsearch/cloud/gateway|Cloud blob store (Amazon S3, Rackspace CloudFiles) gateway.|

p. The gateway set on the node level will automatically control the "index gateway":../../index_modules/gateway to use. For example, if the @fs@ gateway is used, then automatically, each index created on the node will also use its own respective index level @fs@ gateway. In this case, if in an index should not persist its state, it should be explicitly set to @none@.

h2. Recovery After Nodes / Time

p. In many cases, the actual cluster meta data should only be recovered after specific nodes have started in the cluster, or a timeout has passed. This is handy when restarting the cluster, and each node local index storage still exists to be reused and not recovered from the gateway (which reduces the time it takes to recover from the gateway).

p. The @gateway.recover_after_nodes@ setting (which accepts a number) and @gateway.recovery_after_time@ setting (which accepts a time value) can be to control it.

p. Note, once the meta data has been recovered from the gateway (which indices to create, mappings and so on), then this setting is no longer effective until the next full restart of the cluster.

p. Operations are blocked while the cluster meta data has not been recovered in order not to mix with the actual cluster meta data that will be recovered once the settings has been reached.

