---
layout: doc_es
title: ElasticSearch Docs | Modules | Node | Network
---

<script type="text/javascript">
docBreadcrumb = [
    ["elasticsearch", "ElasticSearch"], 
    ["modules", "Modules"], 
    ["node", "Node"], 
    ["network", "Network"], 
];
</script>

h1. Node Network Settings

p. There are several modules within a Node that use network based configuration, for example, the "transport":../../transport and "http":../../http modules. Node level network settings allows to set common settings that will be shared among all network based modules (unless explicitly overridden in each module).

p. The @network.bind_host@ setting allows to control the host different network component will bind on. By default, the bind host will be @anyLocalAddress@ (typically @0.0.0.0@ or @::0@).

p. The @network.publish_host@ setting allows to control the host the node will publish itself within the cluster so other nodes will be able to connect to it. Of course, this can't be the @anyLocalAddress@, and by default, it will be the first non loopback address (if possible), or the local address.

p. The @network.host@ setting is a simple setting to automatically set both @network.bind_host@ and @network.publish_host@ to the same host value.

p. Both settings allows to be configured with either explicit host address or host name. The settings also accept logical setting values explained in the following table:

|_. Logical Host Setting Value |_. Description |
|@_local_@|Will be resolved to the local ip address.|
|@_nonloopback@|The first non loopback address.|
|@_nonloopback:ipv4_@|The first non loopback IPv4 address.|
|@_nonloopback:ipv6_@|The first non loopback IPv6 address.|
|@_[netowrkInterface]_@|Resolves to the ip address of the provided network interface. For example @_en0_@.|

h2. TCP Settings

p. Any component that uses TCP (like the HTTP, Transport and Memcached) share the following allowed settings:

|_. Setting |_. Description |
|@network.tcp.no_delay@|Enable or disable tcp no delay setting. Defaults to @true@.|
|@network.tcp.keep_alive@|Enable or disable tcp keep alive. By default not explicitly set.|
|@network.tcp.reuse_address@|Should an address be reused or not. Defaults to @true@ on none windows machines.|
|@network.tcp.send_buffer_size@|The size of the tcp send buffer size (in size setting format). By default not explicitly set.|
|@network.tcp.receive_buffer_size@|The size of the tcp receive buffer size (in size setting format). By default not explicitly set.|
